Add ERC: Wallet Asset Discovery (#709)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7811.md

---
eip: 7811
title: Wallet Asset Discovery

> description: JSON-RPC method for wallets to share a user’s full asset list with Dapps, including assets not easily found through on-chain data alone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: JSON-RPC method for wallets to share the full asset list owned by a given account address with Dapps, including assets not easily found through on-chain data alone
```

Could you clarify Is it an user or a account (wallet) address? 

For example many traditional wallet app user have a seed phrase that enables them to have multiple account addresses by BIP32 plus on different chain.

Author: This is specific to one account. What I think you are asking is if there is a way to return all assets owned by the user across different accounts?

author: Luka Isailovic (@lukaisailovic), Konrad Kopp (@kopy-kat)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7811-wallet-asset-discovery/21639
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC

> created: 2024-11-07

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
created: 2024-11-07
requires: 20, 155, 721, 5792, 7528
```

---

## Abstract

> This ERC introduces a new RPC call, wallet_getAssets, for wallets to declare to the Dapp what assets are owned by the user. This allows for more accurate asset discovery and the use of assets that aren’t available on-chain but can be provided by the wallet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ERC introduces a new RPC call, `wallet_getAssets`, for wallets to declare to the Dapp what assets are owned by the user. This allows for more accurate asset discovery and the use of assets that aren’t available on-chain but can be provided by the wallet
```

Please put code in backticks, both here and throughout the rest of the document.

## Motivation

Currently, Dapps primarily rely on on-chain data to determine a user's balance, which can be limiting. Furthermore, a Dapp might restrict the user from initiating actions that the wallet could otherwise resolve, as it cannot account for the total assets a user has across different accounts or chains.

Wallets already have information about a user's assets, including those not visible on-chain, and need a way to communicate that information to Dapps.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Method: `wallet_getAssets`

#### Request schema

```ts
type WalletGetAssetsRequest = {

>   account: Hex;

Reviewer 2: I'm not super familiar with TypeScript. Is `Hex` a predefined type?

Author: @SamWilsn Its not actually, the TS native way to do this would be `0x${string}` but it looks ugly IMO. Hex type ships with all the clients folks usually use like Wagmi, Ethers etc

Reviewer: Since it's in specification section, if you are introducing a data type please define them

Author: Addressed!

  requiredAssets?: Record<Hex, Hex[]>;
};
```

> `account` is a required field that indicates for which account assets are requested.

Reviewer 3: Is this an account address or CAIP-10?

Author: Its account address, however I named it account to keep the naming consistent with other calls.

> `account` is a required field that indicates for which account assets are requested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`account` is a REQUIRED field that indicates for which account assets are requested.
```

You should uppercase the RFC 2119 keywords.

> `requiredAssets` is an optional field that specifies only the assets Dapp cares about on the specific chains. If it is provided, the response from the wallet SHOULD include those assets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`requiredAssets` is an OPTIONAL field that specifies only the assets Dapp cares about on the specific chains. If it is provided, the response from the wallet SHOULD include those assets.
```

#### Example request

```json
{
  "account": "0x123",
  "requiredAssets": {
    "0x1": ["0x456", "0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE"],
    "0xa": ["0x789", "0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE"]
  }
}
```

#### Response schema

```ts
type Asset = {
  address: Hex;
  balance: Hex;
  type: string;
  metadata: any;
};
type WalletGetAssetsResponse = Record<Hex, Asset[]>;
```

> The key **SHOULD** be [EIP-155](./eip-155.md) chainId

Reviewer 3: Why not `MUST`?

Reviewer 3: What about cross-chain assets? E.g. Solana? Maybe this should be a CAIP-2?

Author: Using CAIP-2 would mean that the assets would also have to be defined in a cross-chain way. Currently there isn't a nice way to do that so thats why it was skipped

Author: Also you can use Solana/non-evm as a source of funds. This ERC just specifies how much can you get on certain EVM chains, it does not say where from

Reviewer 4: normrefing CAIP-2 might add too much complexity but adding an example with funds from Solana or BTC referenced by CAIP-2 might make the point?

Reviewer 3: We should make this `MUST`

Asset fields:

> `address` is the address of the asset as Hex. Native assets **MUST** use `0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE` address specified by [ERC-7528](./eip-7528.md)

Reviewer 5: Kind of odd. Why do we need to include a stub address?

Reviewer 3: ```typescript
address: Hex | "native";
```

?

`balance` is the balance of the asset as Hex

**`type`:** A string indicating the type of the asset. Common asset types include but **aren’t limited to**:

- **`ERC20`:** For [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) tokens
- **`ERC721`:** For [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) tokens (NFTs)
- **`native`:** For the chain's native currency

**`metadata`:** An optional object containing additional information about the asset. The specific fields within the metadata object may vary depending on the asset type and the wallet's implementation."

#### Example response

```json
{

>   "0x1": [
>     {
>       address: "0x123",
>       balance: "0xcaaea35047fe5702",

Reviewer 3: Suggest using `address` as the key to simplify lookups

```suggestion
  "0x1": [
    "0x123": {
      balance: "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
```

Reviewer 5: ah yeah, then you could have `native` key too

Author: This is an interesting point, would simplify lookups a lot for the clients!

Author: @chris13524 Was thinking more about this, I agree that it simplifies lookups, however the API is less intuitive and we complicate the most common use case which is just looping through and displaying all assets. For objects that would be super annoying in js

Reviewer 5: If the goal is to optimize for API clarity, wouldn't it make sense to group by token instead of chain id? I am not sure how `Object.values` is any less intuitive (esp. if consumers are using libraries that abstract over JSON-RPC).

Author: @jxom I was not a fan of grouping per chain, and then per asset. It seems like a lot of nesting which is why I don't find it intuitive. 
Agree that this will prob be abstracted. 
Do you think it makes sense to group on per asset and specify a list of chains instead? 
We run into an issue of one asset having different addresses across chains then, which is why I grouped it per chain initially.

Reviewer 3: We should use CAIP-19. So this would be 0.000001 USDC:

```suggestion
  "eip155:1/erc20:0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48": {
      balance: "0x1",
```

      type: "ERC20",
      metadata: {
        name: "Token",
        symbol: "TOK",
        decimals: 18,
      }
    },
    {
      address: "0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE",
      balance: "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
      type: "native"

>     }

Reviewer 5: Wonder if we should have a rule that native asset must be the first item in the array. Would feel a bit weird to have a linear time complexity just to extract a native balance (and there could be many many tokens).

Reviewer 3: Would [this suggestion](https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/709/files/ff4b3eb3ac8e275d5f055546caed66919ab0d3d0#r1853008255) resolve your concern?

  ],
  "0xa": [
    {
      address: "0x456",
      balance: "0xcd5595",
      type: "ERC721",
      metadata: {
      //...
      }
    }
  ],
};
```

### Asset definitions

This section specifies a structure for the most commonly used asset types.

> This ERC does not specify an exhaustive list of asset types. Since the type is a generic string, there could be a mismatch between the type Dapp expects and the one returned by the wallet. It’s important that no two assets share the same type. Therefore, new asset types should be specified in ERCs, either in this ERC as an amendment or in another ERC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ERC does not specify an exhaustive list of asset types. Since the type is a generic string, there could be a mismatch between the type Dapp expects and the one returned by the wallet. It’s important that no two assets share the same type. Therefore, new asset types should be specified in future ERCs.
```

You cannot amend a Final ERC, so I'd recommend removing this bit.

**Native**

```ts
type NativeAsset = {
  address: "0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE";
  balance: Hex;
  type: "native";

>   metadata: any;

Reviewer 5: should this be omitted for native?

};
```

Example:

```json
{
  "address": "0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE",
  "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
  "type": "native"
}
```

**ERC-20 Token**

```ts
type Erc20Asset = {
  address: Hex;
  balance: Hex;
  type: "ERC20";
  metadata: {
    name: string;
    symbol: string;
    decimals: number;

>     [key: string]: any;

Reviewer 5: What extra would go here? If this is different per wallet, might be a bit hard/unrealistic for applications to coerce. Can we keep it strict?

Author: Good point, will update!

  };
};
```

Example:

```json
{
  address: "0x123",
  balance: "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
  type: "ERC20",
  metadata: {
    name: "Token",
    symbol: "TOK",
    decimals: 18
  }
},
```

**ERC-721 Token**

```ts
type Erc721Asset = {
  address: Hex;
  balance: Hex;
  type: "ERC20";
  metadata: {
    name: string;
    symbol: string;
    [key: string]: any;
  };
};
```

### Capabilities

> If the wallet is using CAIP-25 authorization, wallet **SHOULD** include `assetDiscovery` key in the CAIP-25 `sessionsProperties` object. Value should be an object with `supported` key and value `true`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the wallet is using [CAIP-25](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/0848f06f6cfc29ce619bccdd5035c1d500033b21/CAIPs/caip-25.md) authorization, wallet **SHOULD** include `assetDiscovery` key in the CAIP-25 `sessionsProperties` object. Value should be an object with `supported` key and value `true`
```

```json
{
  //...
  "sessionProperties": {
    "assetDiscovery": {
      "supported": true
    }
  }
}
```

If the wallet supports [ERC-5792](./eip-5792.md) wallet **SHOULD** respond on `wallet_getCapabilities` request using the `assetDiscovery` key. Value should be an object with `supported` key and value `true`
Wallet **SHOULD** include this for every chainId.

```json
{
  "0xa": {
    "assetDiscovery": {
      "supported": true
    }
  }
}
```

## Rationale

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<!-- TODO -->

```

## Security Considerations

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<!-- TODO -->

```

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Method: `wallet_getAssets`

#### Request schema

```ts
type WalletGetAssetsRequest = {
  account: Hex;
  assetFilter?: Record<Hex, Hex[]>;
};
```

`account` is a **REQUIRED** field that indicates for which account assets are requested.

`assetFilter` is an **OPTIONAL** field that specifies only the assets Dapp cares about on the specific chains. If it is provided, the response from the wallet **SHOULD** include those assets.

If the `assetFilter` field is omitted, the wallet **SHOULD** return all available assets for the requested account. It is **RECOMMENDED** that the returned assets be ordered by estimated value in descending order, as determined by the wallet.

If the `assetFilter` field is provided, but the asset array is empty, wallet should return all assets on the requested chains.

#### Example request

```json
{

>   "account": "0x123",

Reviewer: Can you use full length example?

Author: Done!

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-11-07
requires: 20, 155, 721, 5792
---

## Abstract

This ERC introduces a new RPC call, `wallet_getAssets`, for wallets to declare to the Dapp what assets are owned by the user. This allows for more accurate asset discovery and the use of assets that aren’t available on-chain but can be provided by the wallet

## Motivation

Currently, Dapps primarily rely on on-chain data to determine a user's balance, which can be limiting. Furthermore, a Dapp might restrict the user from initiating actions that the wallet could otherwise resolve, as it cannot account for the total assets a user has across different accounts or chains.

Wallets already have information about a user's assets, including those not visible on-chain, and need a way to communicate that information to Dapps.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Method: `wallet_getAssets`

#### Request schema

```ts

> type Hex = `0x${string}`;

Reviewer 3: Suggest defining more type names such as Address and AssetType so it's more clear the semantics in other places.

```suggestion
type Hex = `0x${string}`;
type Address = Hex;
type AssetType = "native" | "erc20" | "erc720" | string;
```

type WalletGetAssetsRequest = {

>   account: Hex;

Reviewer 3: I think we should make `account` an array. In some apps you may need to interact with multiple accounts at once. For example if an app asked you which account you want to use to pay for the doughnut, you could select from which account and at the same time easily see the balance of each account. Currently this is `O(n)` for each account.

Author: We would need the response to be an array as well in that case. Do you think its worth it as its not a common use case?

Reviewer 3: What is the drawback? It _should_ be a common use case.

Author: Added unnecessary complexity. One more level of nesting in the response

>   assetFilter?: Record<Hex, string[]>;

Author: I think this was lost during the updates, an oversight, will add it back!

>   assetFilter?: Record<Hex, string[]>;

Reviewer 3: We should use [CAIP-19](https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-19) asset IDs here instead. This allows us to filter more granularly such as to the specific token ID.

```suggestion
  assetFilter?: string[];
```

>   assetFilter?: Record<Hex, string[]>;

Reviewer 3: Avoiding CAIP-19, we could filter by token ID in this way:

```suggestion
  assetFilter?: Record<Hex, {
    address: Address | "native",
    tokenId?: string,
    [key: string]: any,
  }[]>;
```

What are folk's appetite to do additional filtering beyond just the asset address?

>   assetFilter?: Record<Hex, string[]>;

Author: @chris13524 Wdyt about the update I pushed for the filter?

>   assetTypeFilter?: string[];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  assetTypeFilter?: AssetType[];
```

  chainFilter?: Hex[];

> };

Reviewer 3: Suggest adding a way to specify how much metadata you want. For example, Dune [requires you to specify](https://docs.dune.com/echo/evm/balances#parameter-metadata) additional fields to return (e.g. logo) but we could extend this into this spec. Reason is this could have cost-savings if resolving certain information is more costly.

Below is a mapping of asset types to an array of fields that the requester would like to be in the response:

```suggestion
  metadata: { [key: AssetType]: string[] },
};
```

```

`account` is a **REQUIRED** field that indicates for which account assets are requested.

> If the `assetFilter` field is provided, the wallet **MUST** only return the assets specified within it, effectively disregarding the `assetTypeFilter` and `chainFilter` fields as they are already implicitly defined within the `assetFilter`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the `assetFilter` field is provided, the wallet **MUST** only return the assets specified within it, even if `assetTypeFilter` or `chainFilter` could have further filtered the result. This effectively disregards the `assetTypeFilter` and `chainFilter` fields entirely as they are already implicitly defined within the `assetFilter`.
```

If the `assetFilter` field is omitted, the wallet **SHOULD** return all available assets for the requested account. It is **RECOMMENDED** that the returned assets be ordered by estimated value in descending order, as determined by the wallet.

> `assetTypeFilter` is an **OPTIONAL** field that specifies an array of asset types, as defined in this ERC. If `assetTypeFilter` field is provided, wallet **MUST** include only those assets in the response.

Reviewer 6: what are the types? should it be also standardised?

Author: Do you mean the asset types? They are defined in the ERC

Reviewer 6: 👌I see now

> `assetTypeFilter` is an **OPTIONAL** field that specifies an array of asset types, as defined in this ERC. If `assetTypeFilter` field is provided, wallet **MUST** include only those assets in the response.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`assetTypeFilter` is an **OPTIONAL** field that specifies an array of asset types, as defined in this ERC. If `assetTypeFilter` field is provided, wallet **MUST** include only assets with those types in the response
```

`chainFilter` is an **OPTIONAL** field that specifies an array of chain ids, where each value in the array **MUST** be a valid [EIP-155](./eip-155.md) chainId

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Callers of `wallet_getAssets` SHOULD provide `assetFilter`, `assetTypeFilter` and `chainFilter` with as granular as reasonably possible values. For example, if an app is only interested in interacting with USDC on Base, it should provide filters for this. This ensures that wallets and the underlying infrastructure do not incur excessive cost.

```

#### Example request

```json
{
  "account": "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045",
  "assetFilter": {
    "0x1": ["0x456", "native"],
    "0xa": ["0x789", "native"]
  },
  "assetTypeFilter": ["ERC20", "native"],
  "chainFilter": ["0x1"]
}
```

#### Response schema

```ts
type Asset = {

>   address: Hex | "native";

Reviewer 7: is there an argument to use the zero address for native and thus only have a single type?

Reviewer 7: especially given we already have type

Reviewer 6: agree 👍 or optional?

Author: Yeah, dapps would have to do an if check anyways

Reviewer 3: I suggest moving this `address` into `metadata` to avoid the special case. https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/709/files#r1958733655

>   address: Hex | "native";

Reviewer 3: `address` is not sufficient to identify the asset. For example ERC-720 and ERC-1155 tokens have an additional `tokenId`. This problem is also addressed in [CAIP-19](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/namespaces/blob/main/eip155/caip19.md)

Furthermore, `address` doesn't make sense for native tokens. We handled that with a special case, but I'd argue `address` should be moved into `metadata` instead.

  balance: Hex;
  type: string;
  metadata: any;
};
type WalletGetAssetsResponse = Record<Hex, Asset[]>;
```

The key **SHOULD** be [EIP-155](./eip-155.md) chainId

Asset fields:

`address` is the address of the asset as `Hex` or `native` string for native assets.

`balance` is the balance of the asset as `Hex`

**`type`:** A string indicating the type of the asset. Common asset types include but **aren’t limited to**:

> - **`ERC20`:** For [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) tokens
> - **`ERC721`:** For [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) tokens (NFTs)
> - **`native`:** For the chain's native asset

Reviewer 3: Nit: suggest using lowercase. Similar to CAIP-2 and other keys in-general

```suggestion
- **`erc20`:** For [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) tokens
- **`erc721`:** For [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) tokens (NFTs)
- **`native`:** For the chain's native asset
```

**`metadata`:** An **OPTIONAL** object containing additional information about the asset. The specific fields within the metadata object may vary depending on the asset type and the wallet's implementation.

#### Example response

```json
{
  "0x1": [
    {
      "address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48",
      "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
      "type": "ERC20",
      "metadata": {
        "name": "Token",

>         "symbol": "TOK",

Reviewer 6: what if wallet won't provide token TOK in the response? should the dapp fallback with it's own on chain discovery?

Reviewer 3: It's a required field, so the wallet _must_ provide "TOK" in the response

        "decimals": 18
      }
    },
    {
      "address": "native",
      "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
      "type": "native"
    }
  ],
  "0xa": [
    {
      "address": "0x456",
      "balance": "0xcd5595",
      "type": "ERC721",
      "metadata": {
        //...
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### Asset definitions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Well-known asset types

Below are expansions of `metadata` for well-known asset types. Implementations that are ERC-7811-compliant that return these well-known asset types MUST return at least these fields in `metadata`. Implementations MAY return more fields than specified here.
```

Author: > Implementations MAY return more fields than specified here.

I think we should remove this part

Reviewer 3: > how would the dapp know about that and ultimately utilize it in the implementation

Probably some standard. But I still think it's useful to allow arbitrary data. You could ask the same question about capabilities or scopeProperties

Reviewer 3: For example, I think we should include `price` and `icon_url` in the metadata.

Author: @chris13524 Why? 
I don't think it should be required. Adds unnecessary complexity, specifically for icon_url which the wallets potentially do not have if they store the icons locally. 
If we make it optional, then the dapp can't rely on it and needs to have a fallback. If it must have a fallback, whats the value add in the first place. I think its okay that we make the metadata extensible to allow future asset types tho.

Author: @chris13524 Added **MAY** for extensibility

This section specifies a structure for the most commonly used asset types.
This ERC does not specify an exhaustive list of asset types.
Since the type is a generic string, there could be a mismatch between the type Dapp expects and the one returned by the wallet.
It’s important that no two assets share the same type.
Therefore, new asset types should be specified in future ERCs.

**Native**

```ts
type NativeAsset = {
  address: "native";
  balance: Hex;
  type: "native";
};
```

Example:

```json
{
  "address": "native",
  "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
  "type": "native"
}
```

**ERC-20 Token**

```ts
type Erc20Asset = {
  address: Hex;
  balance: Hex;
  type: "ERC20";
  metadata: {
    name: string;
    symbol: string;

>     decimals: number;

Reviewer 3: TIL technically these are optional fields. Shouldn't we follow that? https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/blob/master/ERCS/erc-20.md#token

>     name: string;
>     symbol: string;
>     decimals: number;

Reviewer 3: TIL technically these are optional fields. Shouldn't we follow that? https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/blob/master/ERCS/erc-20.md#token

```suggestion
    name?: string;
    symbol?: string;
    decimals?: number;
```

Author: I think the wallet should handle that and we should keep it as required in the interface

Reviewer 3: How should the wallet handle it?

Author: I currently don't know of a case where token doesn't have a symbol or decimals. It has to be displayed in the wallet somehow, so if it doesn't have those values, what does wallet do with it? How does it display the balance to the user? The assumption is that they would handle that case if it exists and would apply it to 7811 as well

Reviewer 3: Noting that _we_ (wallet service devs) have to figure this out and provide the values, not wallets.

Author: 7811 is Dapp <> Wallet Communication. Wallet service should be the extension of the wallet

  };
};
```

Example:

```json
{
  "address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48",
  "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
  "type": "ERC20",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "Token",
    "symbol": "TOK",
    "decimals": 18
  }
}
```

> **ERC-721 Token**

Reviewer 3: Can we put an example for this? I wonder if `balance` should be part of `metadata` since it doesn't make sense for NFTs?

Author: Well technically balance would be the amount. There can be more than one in the wallet in some cases, depends on the NFT

```ts
type Erc721Asset = {
  address: Hex;
  balance: Hex;
  type: "ERC20";
  metadata: {
    name: string;
    symbol: string;
  };
};
```

### Capabilities

> If the wallet is using [CAIP-25](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/0848f06f6cfc29ce619bccdd5035c1d500033b21/CAIPs/caip-25.md) authorization, wallet **SHOULD** include `assetDiscovery` key in the CAIP-25 `sessionsProperties` object. Value should be an object with `supported` key and value `true`

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
If the wallet is using [CAIP-25](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-25.md) authorization, wallet **SHOULD** include `assetDiscovery` key in the CAIP-25 `sessionsProperties` object. Value should be an object with `supported` key and value `true`
```

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1.md#chain-agnostic-improvement-proposals-caips
Because only commit-specific links are allowed by EIP-1 (I was lobbying for links of the type proposed by ignacio but the EIP editors preferred immutable referents rather than jekyll-rendered ones; i've seen similar for W3C specs in other places, FWIW)

Reviewer 6: as discussed `assetDiscovery` no longer needed

```json
{
  //...
  "sessionProperties": {
    "assetDiscovery": {
      "supported": true
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

CAIP-25 wallets MAY use [CAIP-345](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/345) to provide an alternative RPC endpoint to send `wallet_getAssets` to.

```

Author: I think the CAIP needs to be a specific hash (merged)

Reviewer 4: yup, the EIP linter requires a link like `github.com/chainagnostic/.../{commit}/.../CAIP-345.md`. Use this for now but remember to update to the newest commit before publishing to EIP:
https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/4c90de67ad87d2fca2c6b58c3a01ecebf928e008/CAIPs/caip-345.md

If the wallet supports [ERC-5792](./eip-5792.md) wallet **SHOULD** respond on `wallet_getCapabilities` request using the `assetDiscovery` key. Value should be an object with `supported` key and value `true`

> Wallet **SHOULD** include this for every chainId.

Reviewer 3: > every chainId

This could create excessive bandwidth. Should we consider a way to indicate support for all chains? 🤔

Author: The current structure of 5792 capabilities requires this

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-11-07
requires: 20, 155, 721, 5792
---

## Abstract

This ERC introduces a new RPC call, `wallet_getAssets`, for wallets to declare to the Dapp what assets are owned by the user. This allows for more accurate asset discovery and the use of assets that aren’t available on-chain but can be provided by the wallet

## Motivation

Currently, Dapps primarily rely on on-chain data to determine a user's balance, which can be limiting. Furthermore, a Dapp might restrict the user from initiating actions that the wallet could otherwise resolve, as it cannot account for the total assets a user has across different accounts or chains.

Wallets already have information about a user's assets, including those not visible on-chain, and need a way to communicate that information to Dapps.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Method: `wallet_getAssets`

#### Request schema

```ts
type Hex = `0x${string}`;

> type Address = Hex;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
type Address = Hex;
type AddressOrNative = Address | "native";
type Eip191ChainId = Hex;
```

> type AssetType = "native" | "erc20" | "erc720" | string;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
type AssetType = "native" | "erc20" | "erc721" | string;
```

#### Example response

```json
{
  "0x1": [
    {
      "address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48",
      "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
      "type": "ERC20",
      "metadata": {
        "name": "Token",
        "symbol": "TOK",
        "decimals": 18
      }
    },
    {
      "address": "native",
      "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",
      "type": "native"
    }
  ],
  "0xa": [
    {
      "address": "0x456",
      "balance": "0xcd5595",
      "type": "ERC721",
      "metadata": {
        //...
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Asset definitions

This section specifies a structure for the most commonly used asset types.
This ERC does not specify an exhaustive list of asset types.
Since the type is a generic string, there could be a mismatch between the type Dapp expects and the one returned by the wallet.
It’s important that no two assets share the same type.
Therefore, new asset types should be specified in future ERCs.

**Native**

```ts
type NativeAsset = {
  address: "native";
  balance: Hex;
  type: "native";
};
```

Example:

```json
{
  "address": "native",
  "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",

>   "type": "native"

Reviewer 3: Native tokens should have this metadata too. E.g. "Etheruem", "ETH", and 18?

```suggestion
  "type": "native"
  "metadata": {
    name: string;
    symbol: string;
    decimals: number;
  }
```

Author: Isn't this standardized across all EIP-155 chains?

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure what you mean by standardized? Each registration in ethereum-lists/chains has to [specify it](https://github.com/ethereum-lists/chains?tab=readme-ov-file#example)

}
```

**ERC-20 Token**

```ts
type Erc20Asset = {
  address: Hex;
  balance: Hex;

>   type: "ERC20";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  type: "erc20";
```

  metadata: {
    name: string;
    symbol: string;
    decimals: number;
  };
};
```

Example:

```json
{
  "address": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48",
  "balance": "0xcaaea35047fe5702",

>   "type": "ERC20",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  "type": "erc20",
```

  "metadata": {
    "name": "Token",
    "symbol": "TOK",
    "decimals": 18
  }
}
```

**ERC-721 Token**

```ts
type Erc721Asset = {
  address: Hex;
  balance: Hex;

>   type: "ERC20";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  type: "erc721";
```

---
eip: 7811
title: Wallet Asset Discovery

> description: JSON-RPC method for wallets to share a user’s full asset list with Dapps, including assets not easily found through on-chain data alone

Reviewer 9: M'y accountedge

author: Luka Isailovic (@lukaisailovic), Konrad Kopp (@kopy-kat), Derek Rein (@arein), Chris Smith (@chris13524)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7811-wallet-asset-discovery/21639
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-11-07

> requires: 20, 155, 721, 5792

Reviewer 9: M'y accountedge

## Motivation

Currently, Dapps primarily rely on on-chain data to determine a user's balance, which can be limiting. Furthermore, a Dapp might restrict the user from initiating actions that the wallet could otherwise resolve, as it cannot account for the total assets a user has across different accounts or chains.

Wallets already have information about a user's assets, including those not visible on-chain, and need a way to communicate that information to Dapps.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### Method: `wallet_getAssets`

#### Request schema

```ts
type Hex = `0x${string}`;
type Address = Hex;
type AssetType = "native" | "erc20" | "erc721" | string;
type Address = Hex;
type AddressOrNative = Address | "native";
type Eip155ChainId = Hex;

type WalletGetAssetsRequest = {
  account: Address;
  assetFilter?: Record<
    Eip155ChainId,
    {
      address: AddressOrNative;
      type: AssetType;
    }[]
  >;
  assetTypeFilter?: AssetType[];
  chainFilter?: Hex[];

> };

Reviewer 9: M'y accountedge

```

> `account` is a **REQUIRED** field that indicates for which account assets are requested.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`accounts` is a **OPTIONAL** field that indicates for which accounts assets are requested.
```

`chainFilter` is an **OPTIONAL** field that specifies an array of chain ids, where each value in the array **MUST** be a valid [EIP-155](./eip-155.md) chainId

Consumers of `wallet_getAssets` SHOULD set `assetFilter`, `assetTypeFilter` and `chainFilter` with as granular as reasonably possible values. For example, if an app is only interested in interacting with a single token on a single chain, it should provide filters for this. Doing this both ensures that wallets and the underlying infrastructure do not incur excessive cost, as well as significantly increased performance to client applications.

#### Example request

```json
{
  "account": "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045",
  "assetFilter": {
    "0x1": [
      {
        "address": "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045",
        "type": "erc20"
      },
      {
        "address": "native",
        "type": "native"
      }
    ],
    "0xa": [
      {
        "address": "0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045",
        "type": "erc20"
      }
    ]
  },
  "assetTypeFilter": ["ERC20", "native"],
  "chainFilter": ["0x1"]
}
```

#### Response schema

```ts
type Asset = {
  address: AddressOrNative;

>   balance: Hex;

Reviewer 9: M'y accountedge

  type: string;
  metadata: any;
};

> type WalletGetAssetsResponse = Record<Hex, Asset[]>;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
type WalletGetAssetsResponse = Record<Address, Record<Hex, Asset[]>>;
```

Reviewer 9: M'y accountedge

```

The key **MUST** be [EIP-155](./eip-155.md) chainId

Asset fields:

`address` is the address of the asset as `Hex` or `native` string for native assets.

`balance` is the balance of the asset as `Hex`

**`type`:** A string indicating the type of the asset. Common asset types include but **aren’t limited to**:

- **`erc20`:** For [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) tokens
- **`erc721`:** For [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) tokens (NFTs)
- **`native`:** For the chain's native asset

**`metadata`:** An **OPTIONAL** object containing additional information about the asset. The specific fields within the metadata object may vary depending on the asset type and the wallet's implementation.

#### Example response

```json
{

>   "0x1": [

Reviewer 3: TODO scope by address
